---
title: "Eurostar forced to cancel all services to and from London after 'major disruption' in Channel Tunnel"
date: 2025-12-30
description: "Eurostar suspends all London services due to major power supply issues in Channel Tunnel and failed LeShuttle train, forcing passengers to rebook journeys."
summary: "Eurostar suspends all London services due to major power supply issues in Channel Tunnel and failed LeShuttle train, forcing passengers to rebook journeys."
slug: "eurostar-forced-to-cancel-all-services-to-and-from-london-after-major-disruption-in-channel-tunnel"
image: ''
link: 'https://www.foxnews.com/world/eurostar-forced-cancel-all-services-from-london-after-major-disruption-channel-tunnel'
source: 'https://feeds.foxnews.com/foxnews/world'
categories:
- 'feeds.foxnews.com'
tags:
- 'disruption'
- 'eurostar'
- 'services'
- 'channel'
- 'forced'

draft: false
---
<p>The international high-speed passenger rail service that connects the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands was forced to cancel all services <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/world/world-regions/europe" target="_blank" rel="noopener">to and from London</a> after experiencing a "major disruption."</p><p>"Eurostar services to and from London are suspended until further notice due to overhead power supply issues in the Channel Tunnel, followed by a failed LeShuttle train," Eurostar said in a statement emailed to Fox News Digital. </p><p>"We advise our customers to rebook their journey for another day, with free exchanges available," the statement added. "We apologize for the disruption and will continue to keep customers updated with the latest information."</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/travel/holiday-travel-plans-could-ruined-you-wear-particular-item-airport"><strong>YOUR HOLIDAY TRAVEL PLANS COULD BE RUINED IF YOU WEAR ONE PARTICULAR ITEM TO THE AIRPORT</strong></a></p><p>Eurotunnel said that "LeShuttle service resumed very gradually" just before 3:00 p.m. CET. The company noted that service was "operating alternatively in both directions with significant delays." Shuttles will be added Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning.</p><p>Eurostar told Fox News Digital that its services to and from London would resume at approximately 6:00 p.m. GMT. The company is urging travelers to rebook their trips, as the power issues are still impacting service. </p><p>"As the overhead power supply issues in the Channel Tunnel still remain, only one line is available to run trains on. This means there will continue to be delays and longer journey times than usual this evening," Eurostar said in a statement. </p><p>Customers whose trains have been canceled are advised not to come to the station, as those trains are not slated to be reinstated. </p><p>Eurostar told Fox News Digital that passengers whose travel has been canceled can, within three months of their original travel date, choose from a variety of compensation options. This includes a free exchange for a ticket on another day or an e-voucher for the unused ticket that will be valid for 12 months. Additionally, they may request refunds for their unused tickets.</p><p>Passengers who were left stranded by the disruption are eligible to have Eurostar cover a variety of expenses, including hotel accommodations up to approximately $199 per room, per night, taxi costs of up to around $70 per journey and food and drink expenses up to approximately $47 per person, per day.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/travel/millions-affected-american-airlines-ends-miles-basic-economy-tickets"><strong>MILLIONS AFFECTED AS MAJOR AIRLINE ENDS ADVANTAGE MILES PROGRAM ON BASIC ECONOMY TICKETS</strong></a></p><p>Earlier on Tuesday, Eurostar issued a warning to travelers to postpone their journeys due to a power supply issue. The company said passengers could see severe delays and last-minute cancellations as a result. Customers were instructed not to go to the station unless they already had a ticket, <a href="https://www.bbc.com/news/live/c93wkw37p0pt" target="_blank" rel="noopener nofollow">according to the BBC</a>.</p><p>The U.K.'s National Rail issued a similar statement <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/travel" target="_blank" rel="noopener">urging passengers</a> to postpone their travel amid delays and cancellations between London St. Pancras International and Paris Nord, the BBC reported.</p><p>"An incident related to the power supply to trains occurred last night in part of the Channel Tunnel, affecting train and shuttle traffic. A technical intervention is required, which is currently underway," Eurotunnel said in a statement provided to Fox News Digital. "The service is temporarily suspended in both directions."</p><p>Eurostar told Fox News Digital that no passengers were stranded in the tunnel and that the broken shuttle, known as LeShuttle, had been removed.</p><p>LeShuttle, which is separate from Eurostar’s passenger-only rail service, runs between Folkestone, U.K., and <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/world/world-regions/france" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Calais, France</a>, bringing passengers and their vehicles through the Channel Tunnel in just 35 minutes.</p><p>London North Eastern Railway (LNER) told Fox News Digital that customers with tickets for Dec. 30 whose travel was affected by the Eurostar disruption could travel to their home station on an alternative LNER train for no additional fee.</p><p>"Any LNER customers who have had to abandon their journey in London King's Cross are able to return to their home station on the next available LNER service at no additional cost," LNER told Fox News Digital. "LNER customers who choose to defer their Eurostar travel to a different day may use their existing LNER ticket to travel on that same day."</p><p>In response to a request for comment, National Rail referred Fox News Digital to Eurostar's media center.</p><p>LeShuttle did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital's request for comment.</p>
