---
title: "ICE agent shoots Venezuelan national in Minneapolis after shovel attack during ambush: DHS"
date: 2026-01-14
description: "A shooting involving an ICE agent unfolded in Minneapolis late Wednesday after a suspect allegedly assaulted a federal officer with a shovel, authorities said."
summary: "A shooting involving an ICE agent unfolded in Minneapolis late Wednesday after a suspect allegedly assaulted a federal officer with a shovel, authorities said."
slug: "ice-agent-shoots-venezuelan-national-in-minneapolis-after-shovel-attack-during-ambush-dhs"
image: ''
link: 'https://www.foxnews.com/us/ice-agent-shoots-venezuelan-national-minneapolis-shovel-attack-ambush-dhs'
source: 'https://feeds.foxnews.com/foxnews/latest'
categories:
- 'feeds.foxnews.com'
tags:
- 'minneapolis'
- 'venezuelan'
- 'national'
- 'shoots'
- 'shovel'

draft: false
---
<p>A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent is in the hospital after being ambushed during an attempt to arrest a Venezuelan national in Minneapolis on Wednesday evening, according to the Department of Homeland Security.</p><p>The agent was ambushed by two people while attempting to conduct a traffic stop on an illegal immigrant from Venezuela, DHS said, adding that the agent fired his gun during the alleged attack because he was "fearing for his life and safety." </p><p>One <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/immigration" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Venezuelan suspect</a> was shot, but is reported to be stable and is now in custody, DHS said.</p><p>The incident began at about 6:50 p.m. local time when federal law enforcement attempted to make a traffic stop, according to DHS, who added that the suspect was released into the country under the Biden administration in 2022.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/omar-dems-demand-noem-impeachment-paint-minnesota-woman-shot-ice-poet-chose-love" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>OMAR, DEMS DEMAND NOEM IMPEACHMENT, PAINT MINNESOTA WOMAN SHOT BY ICE AS 'POET' WHO CHOSE 'LOVE'</strong></a></p><p>The suspect attempted to evade arrest by driving off, but crashed into a parked car, DHS said. He then fled on foot.</p><p>According to DHS, when an officer caught up to the suspect and attempted to take him into custody, the suspect resisted and "violently assaulted the officer."</p><p>DHS said two additional individuals came out of a nearby apartment while the officer and suspect were engaged in a "struggle on the ground," and attacked the officer with a snow shovel and a broom handle.</p><p>The original suspect broke free during the altercation and also began striking the officer with a shovel or broom handle, according to DHS.</p><p>The officer fired defensive shots to "defend his life," DHS said, and the suspect was hit in the leg.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/us/minnesota-anti-ice-agitators-swarm-confront-federal-agents-during-enforcement-operations" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>MINNESOTA ANTI-ICE AGITATORS SWARM, CONFRONT FEDERAL AGENTS DURING ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS</strong></a></p><p>All three individuals then barricaded themselves inside the apartment before being taken into custody, DHS said.</p><p>"This attack on another brave member of law enforcement took place while Minnesota’s top leaders, Governor Walz and Mayor Frey, are actively encouraging an organized resistance to ICE and federal law enforcement officers," DHS said in a statement.</p><p>The department added that the two leaders' "hateful rhetoric and resistance against men and women who are simply trying to do their jobs must end."</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/us/ice-agent-struck-renee-goods-vehicle-suffered-internal-bleeding-torso-dhs-says" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>ICE AGENT STRUCK BY RENEE GOOD'S VEHICLE SUFFERED INTERNAL BLEEDING TO TORSO, DHS SAYS</strong></a></p><p>"Federal law enforcement officers are facing a 1,300% increase in assaults against them as they put their lives on the line to arrest criminals and lawbreakers," DHS said.</p><p>Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche reacted to the shooting Wednesday evening, assigning blame to Gov. Tim Walz and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey.</p><p>"Minnesota insurrection is a direct result of a FAILED governor and a TERRIBLE mayor encouraging violence against law enforcement," he wrote in a post on X. "It’s disgusting. Walz and Frey — I’m focused on stopping YOU from your terrorism by whatever means necessary. This is not a threat. It’s a promise."</p><p>White House Communications Director Steven Cheung slammed Walz on X following the incident.</p><p>"Thugs assault a law enforcement officer with a shovel after a traffic stop in Minneapolis of an illegal alien RELEASED BY BIDEN," he stated. "Perhaps they took some inspiration from Loser Tim Walz continually going after officers day in and day out."</p><p>The incident comes less than one week after Renee Nicole Good, 37, was killed by an ICE agent <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/minneapolis-st-paul" target="_blank" rel="noopener">in Minneapolis</a> after she allegedly attempted to run him over with her car.</p><p>Fox News Digital has reached out to Mayor Frey and the office of Gov. Walz for comment.</p><p><i>This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.</i></p>
