---
title: "Two wounded in Portland shooting involving federal agents after DHS says vehicle 'weaponized' against them"
date: 2026-01-08
description: "Federal agents reportedly involved in Portland shooting that left two people wounded and hospitalized Thursday afternoon on Southeast Main Street."
summary: "Federal agents reportedly involved in Portland shooting that left two people wounded and hospitalized Thursday afternoon on Southeast Main Street."
slug: "two-wounded-in-portland-shooting-involving-federal-agents-after-dhs-says-vehicle-weaponized-against-them"
image: ''
link: 'https://www.foxnews.com/us/two-wounded-portland-oregon-shooting-involving-federal-agents-city'
source: 'https://feeds.foxnews.com/foxnews/latest'
categories:
- 'feeds.foxnews.com'
tags:
- 'weaponized'
- 'involving'
- 'portland'
- 'shooting'
- 'wounded'

draft: false
---
<p>The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) confirmed a U.S. Border Patrol agent shot two people in Portland, <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/portland" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Oregon</a>, after the driver of a car allegedly attempted to run over federal officers.</p><p>The incident occurred at approximately 2:19 p.m. local time, when Border Patrol agents stopped a vehicle and identified themselves as law enforcement, DHS said.</p><p>According to DHS, the driver – who is believed to be a member of the Venezuelan gang Tren de Aragua (TdA) – allegedly, "weaponized the vehicle and attempted to run over the law enforcement agents."</p><p>Fearing for his life and safety, an agent fired a defensive shot, according to DHS. The driver drove off with the passenger, fleeing the scene, officials said.</p><p>DHS said the driver was also allegedly involved in a recent shooting in the city.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/noem-condemns-alleged-attack-ice-agents-stuck-snow-minneapolis-act-domestic-terrorism" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>NOEM CONDEMNS ALLEGED ATTACK ON ICE AGENTS STUCK IN SNOW IN MINNEAPOLIS AS 'ACT OF DOMESTIC TERRORISM'</strong></a></p><p>Following the incident, Portland Mayor Keith Wilson called on Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to "halt all operations" in the city until a full and independent investigation can take place.</p><p>"We know what the federal government says happened here," Wilson said during a news conference Thursday. "There was a time when we could take them at their word. That time has long passed."</p><p>Wilson added that ICE agents and DHS leadership "must fully be investigated and held responsible for the violence inflicted on the American people in Minnesota, in Portland, and in all the communities across America."</p><p>Oregon Gov. Tina Kotek reacted to the shooting, claiming it was "instigated by the reckless agenda of the Trump administration."</p><p>"While the details of the incident remain limited, one thing is very clear: when a president endorses tearing families apart and attempts to govern through fear and hate rather than shared values, you foster an environment of lawlessness and recklessness," she said.</p><p>Kotek said Oregon's attorney general and other leaders have raised concerns with the excessive use of force by federal agents in Portland, adding that "today's incident only heightens the need for transparency and accountability."</p><p>Portland District Attorney Nathan Vazquez said Thursday he was "very concerned" by the incident and pledged a thorough investigation.</p><p>Vazquez said his office is working closely with Portland police and the FBI.</p><p>Portland Police Bureau (PPB) <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/crime/police-and-law-enforcement" target="_blank" rel="noopener">officers</a> responded to reports of a shooting on the 10200 block of Southeast Main Street at about 2:18 p.m. local time and confirmed federal agents were involved, according to the city.</p><p>Fewer than 10 minutes later, at 2:24 p.m., officers were told a man who had been shot was calling and requesting help in the area of Northeast 146th Avenue and East Burnside. </p><p>Police responded and found a man and woman with apparent gunshot wounds, according to the city. They were taken to the hospital and their conditions are unknown.</p><p>Both scenes were secured by the PPB pending an investigation, officials said.</p><p>No arrests have been confirmed.</p><p>"We are still in the early stages of this incident," PPB Chief Bob Day wrote in a statement. "We understand the heightened emotion and tension many are feeling in the wake of <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/us-regions/midwest/minnesota" target="_blank" rel="noopener">the shooting in Minneapolis</a>, but I am asking the community to remain calm as we work to learn more."</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/us/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protesters-set-up-camp-barricade-roads-schools-businesses-close-city-edge" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>MINNEAPOLIS ICE SHOOTING PROTESTERS SET UP CAMP, BARRICADE ROADS AS SCHOOLS, BUSINESSES CLOSE IN CITY ON EDGE</strong></a></p><p>PPB officers were not involved in the incident, and "do not engage in immigration enforcement," according to city officials.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/democratic-party" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Sen. Ron Wyden</a>, D-Ore., reacted to the shooting on X, blaming the Trump administration for "inflaming violence."</p><p>"I'm monitoring the first awful reports of two people shot in Portland by federal law enforcement," Wyden wrote in the post. "I'll keep you updated, but Trump's deployment of federal agents in my hometown is clearly inflaming violence--and must end."</p><p>Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., said he had "huge concern" about a reported shooting of two individuals by federal agents outside Portland Adventist Hospital.</p><p>"Please keep protests of Trump's ICE/CBP peaceful, as Trump wants to generate riots," Merkley said, adding, "Don't take the bait."</p><p><i>This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.</i></p>
