---
title: "We were college athletes. Supreme Court must listen to our case and save women’s sports"
date: 2026-01-13
description: "Madison Kenyon and Mary Kate Marshall, former Idaho State track athletes, will have their women&apos;s sports cases heard by the Supreme Court on Jan. 13."
summary: "Madison Kenyon and Mary Kate Marshall, former Idaho State track athletes, will have their women&apos;s sports cases heard by the Supreme Court on Jan. 13."
slug: "we-were-college-athletes-supreme-court-must-listen-to-our-case-and-save-women-s-sports"
image: ''
link: 'https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/we-were-college-track-athletes-supreme-court-must-save-future-womens-sports'
source: 'https://feeds.foxnews.com/foxnews/latest'
categories:
- 'feeds.foxnews.com'
tags:
- 'athletes'
- 'college'
- 'supreme'
- 'listen'
- 'sports'

draft: false
---
<p>Imagine if the <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/politics/judiciary/supreme-court" target="_blank" rel="noopener">U.S. Supreme Court</a> was asked to rule on whether the law of gravity still applies, even in these early years of the 21st century. </p><p>After all, some people are uncomfortable with their size. They feel sluggish and weighed down by that pull from the Earth. Why shouldn’t they just be able to ignore gravity and float along as easily as they please? Why should any law of nature be allowed to constrain how light and thin someone feels inside? </p><p>If that sounds ridiculous to you, imagine how <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/sports" target="_blank" rel="noopener">female athletes</a> have felt in recent years, having to compete against males just because they’ve been told that feeling like a woman can make them so. </p><p>Their make-believe is our hard reality. And some of us have empty spaces on our trophy shelves to prove it.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/justice-urges-stand-up-our-girls-supreme-court-weighs-fate-his-save-womens-sports-act" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>JUSTICE URGES ‘STAND UP FOR OUR GIRLS’ AS SUPREME COURT WEIGHS FATE OF HIS 'SAVE WOMEN’S SPORTS ACT'</strong></a></p><p>Each of us spent a lot of our growing-up years training our minds, straining our bodies and gaining the skills to compete against other girls and women on the athletic field. We worked hard — forfeited a lot of fun and family time — and steadily disciplined ourselves to become better, faster and stronger to win those trophies, stand on winners’ platforms and earn scholarships that could pay for our higher education. </p><p>Then something happened that we had no way to predict or prepare for. American sports culture went off the deep end. </p><p>Seemingly overnight, our country’s athletic leaders decided that men could be women, that men had every right to compete in women’s sports, and that physical differences were irrelevant, DNA was unimportant and anyone could be anything they wanted to be. Throw natural law to the wind.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/sports/attorney-general-leading-supreme-court-trans-athlete-case-defense-speaks-out" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>ATTORNEY GENERAL LEADING THE SUPREME COURT TRANS ATHLETE CASE DEFENSE SPEAKS OUT</strong></a></p><p>Here’s a little glimpse of what that’s looked like: </p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/sports/super-bowl-champion-coach-legendary-athletes-sign-amicus-brief-backing-female-athletes-scotus-battle" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>SUPER BOWL CHAMPION COACH, OLYMPIANS SIGN AMICUS BRIEF SUPPORTING PROTECTION OF FEMALE ATHLETES IN SCOTUS CASE</strong></a></p><p>As two former track-and-field athletes at Idaho State University, we’ve seen the injustices faced by women forced to compete against physically stronger men. That’s why, with the help of our attorneys at Alliance Defending Freedom, we joined the lawsuit Little v. Hecox, led by Idaho Attorney General Raúl Labrador, which is being argued at the U.S. Supreme Court today alongside another case, State of West Virginia v. B.P.J., led by West Virginia Attorney General JB McCuskey. The Supreme Court will hear both cases on Jan. 13. </p><p>More than 50 friend-of-the-court briefs have been filed in these combined cases — by women’s rights groups, female athletes, scientists, dozens of other advocacy groups, 27 states and the U.S. government — all asking the justices to allow enforcement of state laws that protect women’s sports. </p><p>That support comes out of recognition that the damage this insanity has done to the spirit of women athletes, to the bodies of women competing against men and even to the landmark legal protections of Title IX is multiplied many times over by the brutal domino effect this denial of reality is having on families coast to coast. </p><p>Parents intimidated into pushing their children into dangerous drugs and life-altering surgeries. Women trapped in prisons with violent male criminals. Women-only shelters forced to admit men, who sleep next to women still suffering the effects of abuse and human trafficking.    </p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/opinion" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>CLICK HERE FOR MORE FOX NEWS OPINION</strong></a></p><p>Students roomed with the opposite sex on overnight school field trips. Teachers losing their jobs for not promoting the idea that gender is self-determined. Counselors forced to help their clients ignore the reality of their sexual identity. Schools keeping parents in the dark as educators secretly "socially transition" their children.</p><p>Those in places of power and with social agendas justify all of these nightmares by denying the essential reality that boys are boys and girls are girls — a fact that no amount of pretense or politicking can change. Yet government officials have moved aggressively in recent years to silence anyone who speaks up for that reality. </p><p>Now, the Supreme Court will finally be able to clarify what the law already recognizes — and so protect the rights not only of female athletes but of all Americans who embrace biological reality and the simple truths of nature.</p><p>There are only two sexes. And no one should be punished for believing that. </p><p><i>Mary Kate Marshall is a former track athlete at Idaho State University and a party to the women’s sports cases that the U.S. Supreme Court will hear on Jan. 13.</i></p>
