---
title: "Wyoming Supreme Court rules laws restricting abortion violate state constitution"
date: 2026-01-06
description: "Wyoming&apos;s Supreme Court struck down two laws restricting abortion, including the nation&apos;s first explicit abortion pill ban in a 4-1 ruling."
summary: "Wyoming&apos;s Supreme Court struck down two laws restricting abortion, including the nation&apos;s first explicit abortion pill ban in a 4-1 ruling."
slug: "wyoming-supreme-court-rules-laws-restricting-abortion-violate-state-constitution"
image: ''
link: 'https://www.foxnews.com/politics/wyoming-supreme-court-rules-laws-restricting-abortion-violate-state-constitution'
source: 'https://feeds.foxnews.com/foxnews/latest'
categories:
- 'feeds.foxnews.com'
tags:
- 'constitution'
- 'restricting'
- 'abortion'
- 'wyoming'
- 'supreme'

draft: false
---
<p>The Wyoming Supreme Court ruled on Tuesday that a pair of laws restricting <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/politics/judiciary/abortion" target="_blank" rel="noopener">abortion access</a> violate the state constitution, including the country’s first explicit ban on abortion pills.</p><p>The court, in a 4-1 ruling, sided with the state’s only abortion clinic and others who had sued over the abortion bans passed since the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade in 2022, which returned the power to make laws on abortion back to the states.</p><p>Despite Wyoming being one of the most conservative states, the ruling handed down by justices who were all appointed by Republican governors upheld every previous lower court ruling that the abortion bans violated the state constitution.</p><p>Wellspring Health Access in Casper, the abortion access advocacy group Chelsea’s Fund and four women, including two obstetricians, argued that the laws violated a state constitutional amendment affirming that competent adults have the right to make their own healthcare decisions.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-urges-gop-flexible-hyde-amendment-igniting-backlash-from-pro-life-allies" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>TRUMP URGES GOP TO BE 'FLEXIBLE' ON HYDE AMENDMENT, IGNITING BACKLASH FROM PRO-LIFE ALLIES</strong></a></p><p>Voters approved the constitutional amendment in 2012 in response to the federal Affordable Care Act, which is also known as Obamacare.</p><p>The justices in Wyoming found that the amendment was not written to apply to abortion but noted that it is not their job to "add words" to the state constitution.</p><p>"But lawmakers could ask Wyoming voters to consider a constitutional amendment that would more clearly address this issue," the justices wrote.</p><p>Wellspring Health Access President Julie Burkhart said in a statement that the ruling upholds abortion as "essential health care" that should not be met with government interference.</p><p>"Our clinic will remain open and ready to provide compassionate reproductive health care, including abortions, and our patients in Wyoming will be able to obtain this care without having to travel out of state," Burkhart said.</p><p>Wellspring Health Access opened as the only clinic in the state to offer surgical abortions in 2023, a year after a firebombing stopped construction and delayed its opening. A woman is serving a five-year prison sentence after she admitted to breaking in and lighting gasoline that she poured over the clinic floors.</p><p>Attorneys representing the state had argued that abortion cannot violate the <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/us-regions/west/wyoming" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Wyoming constitution</a> because it is not a form of healthcare.</p><p>Republican Gov. Mark Gordon expressed disappointment in the ruling and called on state lawmakers meeting later this winter to pass a constitutional amendment prohibiting abortion that residents could vote on this fall.</p><p>An amendment like that would require a two-thirds vote to be introduced as a nonbudget matter in the monthlong legislative session that will primarily address the state budget, although it would have significant support in the Republican-dominated legislature.</p><p>"This ruling may settle, for now, a legal question, but it does not settle the moral one, nor does it reflect where many Wyoming citizens stand, including myself. It is time for this issue to go before the people for a vote," Gordon said in a statement.</p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/appeals-court-sides-trump-budget-provision-cutting-planned-parenthood-funds" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><strong>APPEALS COURT SIDES WITH TRUMP ON BUDGET PROVISION CUTTING PLANNED PARENTHOOD FUNDS</strong></a></p><p>One of the laws overturned by the state's high court attempted to ban abortion, but with exceptions in cases where it is needed to protect a pregnant woman’s life or in cases of rape or incest. The other law would have made Wyoming the only state to explicitly ban abortion pills, although other states have implemented de facto bans on abortion medication by broadly restricting abortion.</p><p>Abortion has remained legal in the state since Teton County District Judge Melissa Owens blocked the bans while the lawsuit challenging the restrictions moved forward. Owens struck down the laws as unconstitutional in 2024.</p><p>Last year, Wyoming passed <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/politics" target="_blank" rel="noopener">additional laws</a> requiring abortion clinics to be licensed surgical centers and women to receive ultrasounds before having medication abortions. A judge in a separate lawsuit blocked those laws from taking effect while that case moves forward.</p><p><i>The Associated Press contributed to this report.</i></p>
